and then he said Stalin killed and he
came in numbers ten million people I
think here so it's on huge number of
people who killed and or by implication
Marxism killed because for him Marxism
and Stalin killing were more or less the
same real quick question for you what
was Karl Marx's opinion on class warfare
was he in favor of class warfare or was
he against it did he think it was a bad
thing what was Karl Marx's opinion about
violence between social classes class
struggle was he for that was he against
it was he someone who was trying to
minimize the violence of the working
class against the bourgeoisie and the
aristocrats or was he someone who said
it would be good to have more and more
of that kind of violence real easy real
easy question for any Marxists to answer
um let me just actually what what did
Karl Marx a Marx and Engels together in
this case they co-wrote some of their
works you know what what did Marx and
angles have to say about the French
Revolution in the most violent period of
the French Revolution the great terror
did Mark say that that violence was
really bad that that should be minimized
that in the future you know in the class
struggle the people shouldn't do those
bad things that happened in the French
Revolution was that Karl Marx's analysis
of the French Revolution of the great
terror or did Karl Marx say that in the
future the revolution should be more
violent did Karl Marx criticize the
French revolutionaries for trying to
stop the great terror from holding back
the violence of the great terror and the
French Revolution did Mark say that they
should go further be more violent be
more extreme
which one was it and finally does it
count for nothing if a major historical
figure like Joseph Stalin like Lenin or
like Mao Zedong does it count for
nothing in your book if those people are
sincerely trying to carry out the
precepts and principles of Marxism if
when they draw the dotted line between
principle and practice if they came to
these conclusions
does that count for nothing today
so I criticize that I explained to him
okay see that Marxism is a bigger older
thing that mr. Stalin indeed a bigger
and older thing than mr. Stalin mr.
Stalin was born in 1878 December
December of 1878 Karl Marx died in 1883
their lives overlap Marxism was not some
ancient difficult to understand doctrine
during the lifetime of Joseph Stalin now
if I were to say to you that Buddhism in
Japan really is very profoundly
different from Buddhism as it was taught
in India during the lifetime of the
Buddha you have to say well there's a
gap of more than two thousand years
2,000 years and a gap in terms of the
translation of languages that I think I
can genuinely say view in the audience
you cannot imagine you cannot imagine
how profoundly difficult it is to get an
idea from the philosophy of ancient
India written in Pali sometimes
translated or adapted into Sanskrit into
a language like Japanese in the modern
Japanese
ancient or medieval Japanese difficult
in 2,000 years a little bit of a gap
okay
1883 is the death of Karl Marx and you
know what there were a lot of people a
lot of people in Moscow who could read
German the gap linguistically and
culturally within the same century
between Russia and Germany it's not it's
not really a very powerful or potent
excuse especially not when you're
talking about someone taking a set of
political principles and putting them
into practice and the results including
the devastation of the economy
sometimes starvation scarcity and oh
yeah massacres mass murder including
ethnic cleansing including attempted
genocide I tried to remind him that
history is full of killings done in the
name of things what else
objective his history is full of mass
murder that we don't condemn really
that's that's how you read history
what I tried to give them examples that
would make in twitch so I gave examples
like I don't know Christianity I
reminded in Spanish Inquisition to kill
large numbers of people so your argument
is nobody in their right mind would
condemn the Spanish Inquisition so up
then they are for why would anyone
condemn Marxism the crowd applauds I
reminded him of wars in the medieval
time in which Christian princes kill
each other Catholics to Catholics
Catholics to Protestants the whole
information 100 years or the 30 Years
War you know though those were normal
people die do you know of any political
party anywhere in the world that now
claims that the Spanish Inquisition was
a good thing any political party current
present day 21st century political party
that really seriously argues that the 30
Years War was a good thing do you know
any political party anywhere on the
spectrum left right or center that today
is making excuses for wars in which
Catholics persecuted Protestants or
Protestants exterminated Catholics and
they say they look back on that history
and say wow this was this was a positive
this was a good this was these were
massacres these were mass murders we
should make we should make excuses for
um here's the thing
I talked to Marxists I talked to
communist all the time and they are
precisely the people who just like you
Richard Wolffe want to make excuses for
want to present a positive rationale for
mass murder by communist regimes Lenin
style
Mao Zedong depending on what flavor of
communism there are part of just a few
are bold enough to take it all the way
and try to back up the Khmer Rouge in
Cambodia Cambodia comes some people they
seem to stop short of justifying to that
mass-murdering about I don't know why I
mean for a penny in for a pound right
just this this is the thing I think if
you took a survey of Christians who are
alive today something like ninety nine
point nine percent would look back on
the history you're mentioning and say
that's regretable and bad and wrong and
if you ask them what elements of
Christianity are meaningful to you
personally you know you're gonna get
some answers like the Sermon on the
Mount be good to your neighbor you know
there's cherry-picking there's no it's
it's not it's not really going to be
it's not really going to be internecine
fighting in the Dark Ages and the
Renaissance this is not really what
Christians look back on as the pride and
joy of their tradition and it's not what
they're trying to revive today it's not
something trying to advance as
historically inevitable or morally
positive or for the upliftment of
humanity the way that Marxists
doctrinaire Marxists must defend and
propound class warfare class struggle
and yes yes y'all mass murder so if you
want to tell me that killing large
numbers of people in the name say of
Christianity means you shouldn't be a
Christian you know what I am opposed to
mass murder I'm opposed to this kind of
internet violence so therefore I'm
opposed to any form of Christianity that
endorses that
advances that or bakes excuses for it
I'm also opposed to any form of Islam
that does I'm also supposed any form of
Buddhism racism yeah you know what
I challenge accepted their challenge
accepted their professor wolf I know you
think you caught me in a double bind
like it would be really difficult for me
to commit to a position of being opposed
to mass murderer for both Christianity
and Marxism both both Christianity and
communism but you know what I feel right
now I'm willing to take that step I
reminded him the others that the 20th
century had two things that had called
world wars in which we more people were
killed than Stalin ever managed if
anyone can define this convincing well
you know more people died in World War
two than were choked by Joseph Stalin
Joseph Stalin had only killed 1 million
people you know would you look at you a
pro from then I wouldn't I mean I do you
think something is wrong and bad in
principle or maybe you think it's good
in principle but unfortunately in
practice it had terrible unforeseen side
effects in the case of the dictatorship
of Joseph Stalin it's bad both in
principle and in practice just pause and
think about this excuse being made on
the total number of people total number
of deaths attributable to the
dictatorship of Joseph Stalin some
estimates put that at 15 million some
estimates put it at 20 million getting
into the realm of numbers that are in
some ways highly speculative um I don't
know total combat casualties for World
War two I'm looking at 25 million if you
thought it would be really flattering to
the dictatorship of Joseph Stalin to
compare the number of
millions of people he killed the deaths
he's responsible for his regime is
responsible for to the total number of
deaths that Adolf Hitler is responsible
for plus battles taking place all over
the world world war 2 included Japan it
included some parts of Africa I mean
it's really not a very fair comparison
but nevertheless Joseph Stalin looks
absolutely terrible in this comparison
it's not flattering in any way those
were wars among the coolest countries
fighting over colonies fighting over
trade but do you know any political
party anywhere in the world that says it
was a good thing that England conquered
India - any anywhere left-wing
right-wing said you know anyone who Nell
looks back at that history says yeah
this is something we should make excuses
for history of British colonialism in
India do you know do you know any
political party anywhere in the world
really says you know that that
transatlantic slave trade you know King
Charles the fifth of Spain you know um
you know the the the genocide in North
America the enslavement of the native
peoples there and then you know slaves
in Africa and the boats do you know any
political party making positive excuses
for that positive rationalization for
that
I don't not even the crazy right wing
lunatics
um believe it or not if you look at the
manifestos of those guys the guys who
actually are responsible for for mass
shootings unless you it's not their line
of reasoning at all but bizarrely um the
problem here is professor wolf that you
are a member of the school of
thought you are a member of a political
tendency called communism that is still
to this day actively rationalizing and
glorifying violence by communist regimes
and the violence of communist
revolutions that's the issue it's a
little bit different and the connection
between your ideology even if you define
it as Marxism rather than communism and
that violence it's not hard to draw the
dotted line not at all
now conversely if you were to talk about
the definition of capitalism and then
you talk about genocide there's no clear
dotted line from one the other there's
nothing inexorable inevitable or or
stated propounded by the ideology of
capitalism that would make genocide a
good thing there's nothing in the
ideology that binds capitalism the
particular form of government or
conquest of the British Empire heading
out to conquer and control India nothing
about you know King Charles of Spain
trying to get this transatlantic slave
trade going the nice am I supposed to
say see capitalism kills I mean by his
logic this is as good an argument as he
in this so what but if we're gonna count
the dead I think you're trouble I think
it's a crazy metric but you brought it
up it seems so easy for people on the
far left to convince themselves that
they have the cure for an illness and
even if they can't quite define for us
what the illness is
or how the cure is gonna work they
assure us that there were these books
written by brilliant men more than a
hundred years ago and if only we could
follow the blueprint set down in those
books we could build this perfect
hospital that would cure us not just
individually but wouldn't a sense purify
and transform our society
some of them will tell you that this
blueprint for a perfect Hospital has
never been tried it's never really been
built in this world but you know the
truth is they took this blueprint
that built this hospital in Russia and
it was a disaster it failed the outcomes
were terrible by every metric and every
measure not just mass murder and another
group of people they took this blueprint
and they built this hospital in China
and it failed millions and millions of
people died but not just that the
society created was terrible in so many
ways by every metric and every measure
and another group of people they took
this blueprint and they tried to build
this perfect hospital they were
imagining this cure for for this the
sickness they imagined ruin the society
they were part of and they tried to
build it in Yugoslavia and they tried to
build it in Cambodia and they tried to
build it and Laos they tried to build it
in the Czech Republic again and again
and again you know what when things fail
they don't always fail in just the same
way in some places that the hospital
failed this way in some place that
failed that way it collapsed a little
bit different each time but how much
perspicacity does it really take to look
and say hey guys that the problem it
isn't just the construction workers it
isn't just the execution if you go back
to the plan if you look at the blueprint
there's something fundamentally
wrong here there's a reason why this
ideology and this plan has been linked
to mass murder repression starvation
again and again and again and yeah you
know what obviously some of the problems
crept into the hospital after it was
built I mean let's just say the hospital
had a rodent infestation well maybe that
wasn't in the blueprint maybe that
wasn't the but maybe there were some
corruption that came in afterwards what
you have to ask yourself at this point
in 2019 is why would you want to be one
of the people making excuses for mass
murder I don't know any other theater of
political discussion in which it's
necessary to move past the stage of
saying hey this guy this guy is making
excuses for mass murder I don't know any
other theater of political debate what's
necessary to move past that and deal
with the details of the particular
rationale of the particular excuses
professor wolf shame on you
[Music]